
= Calibration =
1. equation of projection
	* Cartesian coordinates:
  (x,y,z) -> (f*x/z,f*y/z)

----
	
2. The Camera matrix
The camera matrix represents the projection of the 3D points in the world to the 2D points in an image.
 y ~ Cx
 y : Representation of the image (A 3D vector Homogeneous coordinates)
 x : Representation of the 3D point (A 4D vector Homogeneous coordinates)
 C : Camera Matrix 
 ~ sign implies that the left and right hand sides are equal up to a non-zero scalar multiplication.

[y₁]  [1 0 0   0] [x₁]
[y₂] ~[0 1 0   0] [x₂]
[1 ]  [0 0 1/f 0] [x₃]
									[1 ]

----

3. Orthographic projection:
Orthographic projection is a means of representing a 3D object in 2D with parallel lines. These parallel lines are orthographic to the projection plane

[u]  [1 0 0 0][x]
[v] =[0 1 0 0][y] 
[w]  [0 0 0 1][z]
							[T]

----
							
4. Weak perspective projection:
A weak perspective projection is similar to the orthographic projection, but includes the scaling factor, thus closer objects appear bigger and vice cersa. 


[u]  [1 0 0 0   ][x]
[v] =[0 1 0 0   ][y] 
[w]  [0 0 0 Z*/f][z]
							   [T]

----

5. Types of lenses: Typically classifd by the curvature of the two optical surfaces. 
	 1. *Biconvex*: Double side convex
	 2. *Biconcave*: Double side concave
	 3. *Plano Convex*: one side convex, other side is flat
	 4. *Plano Concave*: one side concave, other side is flat
	 5. *Positive meniscus*: One side convex, one side concave. But convex side is steeper.
	 6. *Negative meniscus*: One side convex, one side concave. But concave side is steeper.

----

6. Camera parameters:

1. *Intrinsic Parameters*
f: Focal length
Sₓ, Sy: pixels
k₁,k₂: Distortion Coeffecients
oₓ,oy: Image center















